Docs 6711 write troubleshooting content pa (#37)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-user-service-issues.adoc

= Troubleshooting Service Issues
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, service issues, troubleshooting

> When you attempt to run a service, you might encounter issues with the deployment, such as problems with a deployment port, or load balancer issues. This section provides possible causes for your deployment and service issues and describes how to troubleshoot these errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you attempt to run a service, you might encounter issues with the deployment, such as problems with a deployment port, or load balancer issues. This section provides possible causes for your deployment and service issues and describes how to troubleshoot these errors:
```
```suggestion
When you attempt to run a service, you might encounter error messages due to issues with the deployment, such as problems with a deployment port, or load balancer issues:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* <<deployment-not-ready,Deployment not Ready>>
* <<image-ports-do-not-match-deployment-ports, Image ports do not match deployment ports>>
* <<service-not-exposed-as-load-balancer, Service is not exposed as load balancer>>

[[deployment-not-ready]]

> == Deployment is Not Ready

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deployment Is Not Ready
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

Your deployment might not be ready or your deployment might encounter errors after you complete your installation and attempt to run a service.

=== Cause

This issue can be caused due to various reasons. 

=== Diagnose

To diagnose the problem:

. Check the status of deployments: 
+

> `$ kubectl -n <namespace> get deployments`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get deployments`.
```
```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get deployments`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> The ready column shows M/N (M < N). 

Reviewer: Is this always true? Why do we tell the audience the UI output; does it help with steps going forward?

Author: Yes needed

. Check the status of the affected pods: 
+

> kubectl -n <namespace> get pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n <namespace> get pods.
```
```suggestion
kubectl -n <namespace> get pods
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Solution

To resolve this issue:

> . Perform the following action based on the status from the diagnosis step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Perform the following actions, as appropriate to the results you obtained during diagnosis:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** `ErrImagePull` or `ImagePullBackOff`: The image cannot be pulled. Ensure that the image value in the deployment spec or pod references a valid repository or image name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `ErrImagePull` or `ImagePullBackOff`
The image cannot be pulled. Ensure that the image value in the deployment spec or pod references a valid repository or image name.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** `Pending`: Ensure that the pod has the required resources. Either edit the deployment to request lower CPU and memory, or scale the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Pending`
Ensure that the pod has the required resources. Either edit the deployment to request lower CPU and memory, or scale the cluster.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** `CrashLoopBackOff`: Describe the pod to get more information about the failure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `CrashLoopBackOff`
Request a description of the pod to get more information about the failure:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> `$ kubectl -n <namespace> describe pod <pod-name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> describe pod <pod-name>`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . In the events section of the output generated from the previous step, check if any logs are available describing the status of the deployment: live or ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the events section of the description output, check if any logs are available describing the status of the deployment: live or ready.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> .. Verify that the liveness and readiness probes for the deployment are correctly configured and match an existing endpoint in the application. 

Reviewer: "liveness probe"? Just checking....

Author: yes

.. Extend the initial delay or periods, and manually check the responses and logs in the pod:
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> logs <pod-name>`

[[image-ports-do-not-match-deployment-ports]]
== Image Ports Do Not Match Deployment Ports

> [PA: when can this error occur, as in when they are trying to perform this particular task?]

Reviewer: MISSING TEXT

Author: yes need more info

=== Cause

Your requests to specific ports can fail due to various reasons. 

=== Diagnose

To diagnose the problem, run the following command:
+
`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get deployments`
+
The ready column shows N/N (100% ready). However, requests to the declared ports fail with an application-unrelated reason, such as "upstream connect error” or “disconnect or reset before headers”.

=== Solution

To resolve this issue:

. Verify that the request is targeting one of the deployment ports. 
. Verify that the deployment port is exposed in the Dockerfile of the image.

[[service-not-exposed-as-load-balancer]]

> === Service is not Exposed as Load Balancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Service Is not Exposed as Load Balancer
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

When you create a service, you must xref:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/create-external-load-balancer/[expose] it if you want to access it from outside. 

> Exposing the service provides an externally-accessible IP address that sends traffic to the correct port on your cluster nodes provided your cluster runs in a supported environment and is configured with the correct cloud load balancer provider package.

Reviewer: Never use a hyphen after "ly" modifiers
```suggestion
Exposing the service provides an externally accessible IP address that sends traffic to the correct port on your cluster nodes, provided that your cluster runs in a supported environment and is configured with the correct cloud load balancer provider package.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

If you failed to expose the service, any request to the IP address of the service goes into an unresponsive state.

=== Cause

> This issue can occur if you skipped exposing the service as load balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue occurs if you did not expose the service as load balancer.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

> To diagnose the issue with the service, run the following command from the Command prompt: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Diagnose the issue with the service: 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`$ kubectl -n <namespace> get service`

> In the results, the `Type` column displays a value other than "LoadBalancer" and the `External-IP` column displays the value "<none>".

Reviewer: Is this typical or is this just an example of an error? Clarify.

Author: no typical.

Author: no error

=== Solution

> To resolve this issue, verify the service specifications. You must configure the service specification as a load balancer to be render it publically available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, verify the service specifications. You must configure the service specification as a load balancer to render it publically available. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
